# Coffee_Orders_Excel_Project

### Project Summary and Steps

In this project, I will clean and analyze the coffee sales data in Excel to gain insights. I will be looking for the trend of the total sales for different coffee types across different years, sales by country, and the top 5 customer. After collecting the data, I will create an interactive dashboard in Excel to better visualize the data with filters, such as timeline, roast type, size, and loyality card.

The first step to create the final dashboard, I will gather the customer data (Customer Name, Email, and Country) by using XLOOKUP formula to populate the empty columns. After gathering the customer data, I will use the INDEX MATCH to gather the product data (Coffee Type, Roast Type, and Size) to populate the empty columns. After gathering the customer and product data, I will use the multiplication formula on the Unite Price and Quantity to populate the Sales column. As I populated the empty columns with data, I noticed the Coffee Type column only have the abbreviation for the coffee type which may be confusing for the viewer. I decided to create a new column called "Coffee Type Name" with mulitple IF functions to fully spell out the coffee name. I repeated the same step with Roast Type in a new column called "Roast Type Name". After creating the new columns, I started cleaning the data like data formating, number formating, removing duplicates, and more. I then converted the range into a table to later create a pivot table. The pivot table will allow me to create and format multiple visuals and filters. To create the loyality filter, I created a "Loyality" column in the table and used the XLOOKUP formula to populat the column. After creating the visuals and filter, I Copy + Cut the visual and filters into a new worksheet to create the dashboard. After positioning the visuals and filters, I make sure all the filter are connected through the Report Connection to affect ALL visuals instead of one. 

